Announcing the availability of the SMART information retrieval system
from Cornell University!  The SMART system offers a natural language,
indexed text approach to information retrieval that is suitable for
both experimental and practical applications.

In a typical interactive use of the SMART system, a user fills in a
skeleton query with a natural language statement of the user's 
information need. This query is indexed using a collection dependant
dictionary and then compared against a collection of indexed documents.
The system judges which documents are likely to be the most useful to
the user and offers the user a chance to view those on-line documents.
Examples of collections of documents currently in use at Cornell include:
    1. Abstracts of all CACM articles (1958 to 1979)
    2. Unix documentation (Volumes 1 and 2)
    3. Netnews archives (eg. net.bugs)
    4. Archives of large electronic mail-boxes.

The present implementation is the latest in a long line of SMART
implementations dating back to the early 60's.  This, however, is
the first that has offered interactive use in addition to being an
extensive test-bed for information retrieval research.

To give an idea of the scope of SMART, the major modules are
    1. Indexing (includes stemming, stop-word removal, a number of
        choices of parsing methods)
    2. Retrieval (includes several types of sequential retrieval,
        inverted-file retrieval, extended Boolean retrieval (although
        the interactive portion of SMART cannot yet make use of this)).
    3. Display (giving a menu of titles for the user to choose among).
    4. Feedback (automatic construction of a new query given the old
        query and judgements of usefulness of previously displayed
        documents).
    5. Evaluation (multiple means of judging the effectiveness of
        retrieval upon EXPERIMENTAL collections).

Who should be interested in SMART?  First, anybody who wishes to
experimentally investigate information retrieval and who hasn't
developed their own system.  Second, anybody with a serious
medium scale information retrieval problem.  (Medium scale here
means roughly from six to a couple hundred megabytes of documents.)

The SMART system is a large system.  Source code and binaries are
over 5 megabytes themselves, with umpteen more megabytes taken up by
both the text of the documents and the indexed form of the collection.
During the design of SMART, whenever there was a tradeoff between
time and space, space lost.  This allows reasonable response time
to an interactive query (eg., 2 to 3 CPU seconds on a 10,000 document
collection) but means substantial disk space overhead (eg., an 
additional 70% of the space taken up by the original documents).
SMART is not for those with small disks!

The SMART system is written in C, and runs under Berkeley 4.1 or 4.2
UNIX.  It is known to run on the various Vaxen and on SUNs (at several
sites); it will be ported to Pyramids and Goulds in the next couple of
months. With the exception of the top-level shell scripts (written for
csh), it should port to System V fairly readily. (Any volunteers?)

-------------------------------------------------------------------
To get the SMART information retrieval system

1.  Fill in the form below, make a hard copy of it and sign it.
2.  Make out a check to "Cornell University" for $150 or a
    purchase order for $175.
3.  Mail it and the form to:

                The SMART Project
                c/o Chris Buckley
                Dept of Computer Science, Upson Hall
                Cornell University
                Ithaca, New York   14853


Upon receipt of your forms, we'll send you a tape containing the SMART
source, binaries, sample collections, and documentation.  We'll also
send hard copies of the documentation.  An electronic mailing list will
be established for bug reports.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

The form to mail to us is:


In exchange for the SMART information retrieval system, I certify the
following:

a.  I will not use any of the SMART system in a commercial product without
    obtaining permission from Cornell first.
b.  I will keep all copyright notices in the source code,
    and acknowledge the source of the software in any use I make of
    it.
c.  I will not redistribute this software to anyone without permission
    from Cornell first.
d.  I will keep Cornell informed of any bug fixes.
e.  I agree that Cornell offers no warranties or guarantees of any kind
    concerning the use of the SMART system and Cornell will not be liable
    for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the SMART
    system.
f.  I am the appropriate person at my site who can make guarantees a-e.

				Your signature, name, position,
				phone number, U.S. and electronic
				mail addresses.

We'd also be interested in anything you want to tell us about your plans
for the system.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
Tapes will be sent in "tar" format at 1600 bpi unless otherwise arranged.
If you have any questions, problems, etc., send mail to me.

Chris Buckley                       (Usenet)  {vax135, ihnp4}!cornell!chrisb
Dept of Computer Science            (Arpanet,
Upson Hall, Cornell University       CSnet)   chrisb@cornell
Ithaca, New York  14853             (Bitnet)  chrisb%crnlcs
